{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2749
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SFCompactDisplay-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 SFCompactText-Italic;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 SFProText-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 SFMono-Bold;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 SFCompactDisplay-Bold;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 SFMono-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20460\viewh10480\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Brainflip is a very simple programming language, only consisting of nine instructions.
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 All Brainflip programs manipulate a finite 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
array
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  of 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
cell\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 s
\f0\i0 , and each cell holds a positive integer. Cells are 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
indexed
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  starting from cell 0; with default settings, this means that the last cell has an index of 29,999.
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 The array's size can be set between 30,000 and 60,000 cells. This setting, as well as many others, can be accessed by going to Brainflip > Settings... in the menu bar, or by pressing \uc0\u8984 , (command + comma).
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 Cells can be set to 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
1-bit
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 , 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
2-bit
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 , 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
4-bit
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 , 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
8-bit
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 , 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
16-bit
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 , or 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
32-bit
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 . With 8-bit cells (the default), the maximum number a cell can hold is 255 (2
\fs18 \up8 8
\fs26 \up0  - 1). Similarly, 1-bit cells can hold numbers up to 1 (2
\fs18 \up8 1
\fs26 \up0  - 1), 2-bit cells up to 3 (2
\fs18 \up8 2
\fs26 \up0  - 1), 4-bit cells up to 15 (2
\fs18 \up8 4
\fs26 \up0  - 1), 16-bit cells up to 65,535 (2
\fs18 \up8 16
\fs26 \up0  - 1), and 32-bit cells  up to 4,294,967,295 (2
\fs18 \up8 32
\fs26 \up0  - 1).
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 A 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
pointer
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  is used to keep track of the cell that is currently being manipulated. Its initial location can be set between cell 0 and cell 100.
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 Brainflip's instructions are as follows:
\f2 \

\f3\b <
\f4  
\f0\b0 : Moves the pointer to the previous cell, causing an error if going below the bounds of the array.
\f2 \

\f3\b >
\f4  
\f0\b0 : Moves the pointer to the next cell, causing an error if going above the bounds of the array.
\f2 \

\f3\b +
\f4  
\f0\b0 : Increments the current cell by 1. If the cell was at its maximum, underflows to 0.
\f2 \

\f3\b -
\f4  
\f0\b0 : Decrements the current cell by 1. If the cell was at 0, overflows to its maximum.
\f2 \

\f3\b [
\f4  
\f0\b0 : Checks if the current cell contains 0; if so, skips to the matching ].
\f2 \

\f3\b ]
\f4  
\f0\b0 : Checks if the current cell contains 0; if it does not, returns to the matching [.
\f2 \

\f3\b .
\f4  
\f0\b0 : If the current cell is less than 256, outputs the ASCII equivalent of the current cell.
\f2 \

\f3\b ,
\f4  
\f0\b0 : Gets the next character of user input and stores the numerical ASCII equivalent to the current cell. The action performed on end-of-input is customizable.
\f2 \

\f3\b #
\f4  
\f0\b0 : If enabled in the settings, stops the program immediately.
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 All characters other than the ones listed above are treated as comments and ignored.
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 If a \'93
\f5 ,
\f0 \'94 command is encountered, and the value received is greater than the maximum value that will fit in the cell, the cell is set to its maximum value. If the value is greater than 255, the cell will be set to 0, regardless of settings.
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 In order for a Brainflip program to run, all brackets must 
\f1\i \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
match
\f0\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 . For any "
\f5 [
\f0 ", its matching "
\f5 ]
\f0 " is:\
 - Somewhere after its "
\f5 [
\f0 " in the source file.\
 - Separated from its "
\f5 [
\f0 " by as many "
\f5 [
\f0 "s  as "
\f5 ]
\f0 "s.\
 - The first "
\f5 ]
\f0 " that meets these two conditions.
\fs12 \
\

\fs26 Brainflip programs terminate after executing the last instruction in the program (or upon encountering a stop instruction, if enabled).}